doc/rbd/rbd-live-migration.rst, before:

======================
 Image Live-Migration
======================

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; live-migration

RBD images can be live-migrated between different pools within the same cluster;
between different image formats and layouts; or from external data sources.
When started, the source will be deep-copied to the destination image, pulling
all snapshot history while preserving the sparse allocation of data where
possible.

By default, when live-migrating RBD images within the same Ceph cluster, the
source image will be marked read-only and all clients will instead redirect
IOs to the new target image. In addition, this mode can optionally preserve the
link to the source image's parent to preserve sparseness, or it can flatten the
image during the migration to remove the dependency on the source image's
parent.

The live-migration process can also be used in an import-only mode where the
source image remains unmodified and the target image can be linked to an
external data source such as a backing file, HTTP(s) file, or S3 object.

The live-migration copy process can safely run in the background while the new
target image is in use. There is currently a requirement to temporarily stop
using the source image before preparing a migration when not using the
import-only mode of operation. This helps to ensure that the client using the
image is updated to point to the new target image.

.. note::
   Image live-migration requires the Ceph Nautilus release or later. Support for
   external data sources requires the Ceph Pacific release of later. The
   ``krbd`` kernel module does not support live-migration at this time.


.. ditaa::

           +-------------+               +-------------+
           | {s} c999    |               | {s}         |
           |  Live       | Target refers |  Live       |
           |  migration  |<-------------*|  migration  |
           |  source     |  to Source    |  target     |
           |             |               |             |
           | (read only) |               | (writable)  |
           +-------------+               +-------------+

               Source                        Target

The live-migration process is comprised of three steps:

#. **Prepare Migration:** The initial step creates the new target image and
   links the target image to the source. When not configured in the import-only
   mode, the source image will also be linked to the target image and marked
   read-only.

   Similar to `layered images`_, attempts to read uninitialized data extents
   within the target image will internally redirect the read to the source
   image, and writes to uninitialized extents within the target will internally
   deep-copy the overlapping source image block to the target image.


#. **Execute Migration:** This is a background operation that deep-copies all
   initialized blocks from the source image to the target. This step can be
   run while clients are actively using the new target image.


#. **Finish Migration:** Once the background migration process has completed,
   the migration can be committed or aborted. Committing the migration will
   remove the cross-links between the source and target images, and will
   remove the source image if not configured in the import-only mode. Aborting
   the migration will remove the cross-links, and will remove the target image.

Prepare Migration
=================

The default live-migration process for images within the same Ceph cluster is
initiated by running the `rbd migration prepare` command, providing the source
and target images::

    $ rbd migration prepare migration_source [migration_target]

The `rbd migration prepare` command accepts all the same layout optionals as the
`rbd create` command, which allows changes to the immutable image on-disk
layout. The `migration_target` can be skipped if the goal is only to change the
on-disk layout, keeping the original image name.

All clients using the source image must be stopped prior to preparing a
live-migration. The prepare step will fail if it finds any running clients with
the image open in read/write mode. Once the prepare step is complete, the
clients can be restarted using the new target image name. Attempting to restart
the clients using the source image name will result in failure.

The `rbd status` command will show the current state of the live-migration::

    $ rbd status migration_target
    Watchers: none
    Migration:
        	source: rbd/migration_source (5e2cba2f62e)
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (5e2ed95ed806)
        	state: prepared

Note that the source image will be moved to the RBD trash to avoid mistaken
usage during the migration process::

    $ rbd info migration_source
    rbd: error opening image migration_source: (2) No such file or directory
    $ rbd trash ls --all
    5e2cba2f62e migration_source


Prepare Import-Only Migration
=============================

The import-only live-migration process is initiated by running the same
`rbd migration prepare` command, but adding the `--import-only` optional
and providing a JSON-encoded ``source-spec`` to describe how to access
the source image data. This ``source-spec`` can either be passed
directly via the `--source-spec` optional, or via a file or STDIN via the
`--source-spec-path` optional::

        $ rbd migration prepare --import-only --source-spec "<JSON>" migration_target

The `rbd migration prepare` command accepts all the same layout optionals as the
`rbd create` command.

The `rbd status` command will show the current state of the live-migration::

        $ rbd status migration_target
        Watchers: none
        Migration:
	        source: {"stream":{"file_path":"/mnt/image.raw","type":"file"},"type":"raw"}
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (ac69113dc1d7)
	        state: prepared

The general format for the ``source-spec`` JSON is as follows::

        {
            "type": "<format-type>",
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "<stream-type>",
                <stream unique parameters>
            }
        }

The following formats are currently supported: ``native``, ``qcow``, and
``raw``. The following streams are currently supported: ``file``, ``http``, and
``s3``.

Formats
~~~~~~~

The ``native`` format can be used to describe a native RBD image within a
Ceph cluster as the source image. Its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded
as follows::

        {
            "type": "native",
            "pool_name": "<pool-name>",
            ["pool_id": <pool-id>,] (optional alternative to "pool_name")
            ["pool_namespace": "<pool-namespace",] (optional)
            "image_name": "<image-name>",
            ["image_id": "<image-id>",] (optional if image in trash)
            "snap_name": "<snap-name>",
            ["snap_id": "<snap-id>",] (optional alternative to "snap_name")
        }

Note that the ``native`` format does not include the ``stream`` object since
it utilizes native Ceph operations. For example, to import from the image
``rbd/ns1/image1@snap1``, the ``source-spec`` could be encoded as::

        {
            "type": "native",
            "pool_name": "rbd",
            "pool_namespace": "ns1",
            "image_name": "image1",
            "snap_name": "snap1"
        }

The ``qcow`` format can be used to describe a QCOW (QEMU copy-on-write) block
device. Both the QCOW (v1) and QCOW2 formats are currently supported with the
exception of advanced features such as compression, encryption, backing
files, and external data files. Support for these missing features may be added
in a future release. The ``qcow`` format data can be linked to any supported
stream source described below. For example, its base ``source-spec`` JSON is
encoded as follows::

        {
            "type": "qcow",
            "stream": {
                <stream unique parameters>
            }
        }

The ``raw`` format can be used to describe a thick-provisioned, raw block device
export (i.e. `rbd export --export-format 1 <snap-spec>`). The ``raw`` format
data can be linked to any supported stream source described below. For example,
its base ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                <stream unique parameters for HEAD, non-snapshot revision>
            },
            "snapshots": [
                {
                    "type": "raw",
                    "name": "<snapshot-name>",
                    "stream": {
                        <stream unique parameters for snapshot>
                    }
                },
            ] (optional oldest to newest ordering of snapshots)
        }

The inclusion of the ``snapshots`` array is optional and currently only supports
thick-provisioned ``raw`` snapshot exports.

Additional formats such as RBD export-format v2 and RBD export-diff
snapshots will be added in a future release.

Streams
~~~~~~~

The ``file`` stream can be used to import from a locally accessible POSIX file
source. Its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "file",
                "file_path": "<file-path>"
            }
        }

For example, to import a raw-format image from a file located at
"/mnt/image.raw", its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                "type": "file",
                "file_path": "/mnt/image.raw"
            }
        }

The ``http`` stream can be used to import from a remote HTTP or HTTPS web
server. Its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "http",
                "url": "<url-path>"
            }
        }

For example, to import a raw-format image from a file located at
``http://download.ceph.com/image.raw``, its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded
as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                "type": "http",
                "url": "http://download.ceph.com/image.raw"
            }
        }

The ``s3`` stream can be used to import from a remote S3 bucket. Its
``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "s3",
                "url": "<url-path>",
                "access_key": "<access-key>",
                "secret_key": "<secret-key>"
            }
        }

For example, to import a raw-format image from a file located at
`http://s3.ceph.com/bucket/image.raw`, its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded
as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                "type": "s3",
                "url": "http://s3.ceph.com/bucket/image.raw",
                "access_key": "NX5QOQKC6BH2IDN8HC7A",
                "secret_key": "LnEsqNNqZIpkzauboDcLXLcYaWwLQ3Kop0zAnKIn"
            }
        }

.. note::
  The ``access_key`` and ``secret_key`` parameters support storing the keys in
  the MON config-key store by prefixing the key values with ``config://``
  followed by the path in the MON config-key store to the value. Values can be
  stored in the config-key store via ``ceph config-key set <key-path> <value>``
  (e.g. ``ceph config-key set rbd/s3/access_key NX5QOQKC6BH2IDN8HC7A``).

Execute Migration
=================

After preparing the live-migration, the image blocks from the source image
must be copied to the target image. This is accomplished by running the
`rbd migration execute` command::

    $ rbd migration execute migration_target
    Image migration: 100% complete...done.

The `rbd status` command will also provide feedback on the progress of the
migration block deep-copy process::

    $ rbd status migration_target
    Watchers:
    	watcher=1.2.3.4:0/3695551461 client.123 cookie=123
    Migration:
        	source: rbd/migration_source (5e2cba2f62e)
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (5e2ed95ed806)
        	state: executing (32% complete)


Commit Migration
================

Once the live-migration has completed deep-copying all data blocks from the
source image to the target, the migration can be committed::

    $ rbd status migration_target
    Watchers: none
    Migration:
        	source: rbd/migration_source (5e2cba2f62e)
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (5e2ed95ed806)
        	state: executed
    $ rbd migration commit migration_target
    Commit image migration: 100% complete...done.

If the `migration_source` image is a parent of one or more clones, the `--force`
option will need to be specified after ensuring all descendent clone images are
not in use.

Committing the live-migration will remove the cross-links between the source
and target images, and will remove the source image::

    $ rbd trash list --all


Abort Migration
===============

If you wish to revert the prepare or execute step, run the `rbd migration abort`
command to revert the migration process::

        $ rbd migration abort migration_target
        Abort image migration: 100% complete...done.

Aborting the migration will result in the target image being deleted and access
to the original source image being restored::

        $ rbd ls
        migration_source


.. _layered images: ../rbd-snapshot/#layering

Commit message:

librbd/migration: add external clusters support
This commit extends NativeFormat (aka migration where the migration
source is an RBD image) to support external Ceph clusters, limited to
import-only mode.

Co-authored-by: Or Ozeri <oro@il.ibm.com>
Signed-off-by: Ilya Dryomov <idryomov@gmail.com>
(cherry picked from commit 293d523ea69aaf1fa5c372f058f4426d49a3e196)

Resolves: rhbz#2219736

doc/rbd/rbd-live-migration.rst, after:

======================
 Image Live-Migration
======================

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; live-migration

RBD images can be live-migrated between different pools, image formats and/or
layouts within the same Ceph cluster; from an image in another Ceph cluster; or
from external data sources. When started, the source will be deep-copied to
the destination image, pulling all snapshot history while preserving the sparse
allocation of data where possible.

By default, when live-migrating RBD images within the same Ceph cluster, the
source image will be marked read-only and all clients will instead redirect
IOs to the new target image. In addition, this mode can optionally preserve the
link to the source image's parent to preserve sparseness, or it can flatten the
image during the migration to remove the dependency on the source image's
parent.

The live-migration process can also be used in an import-only mode where the
source image remains unmodified and the target image can be linked to an image
in another Ceph cluster or to an external data source such as a backing file,
HTTP(s) file, or S3 object.

The live-migration copy process can safely run in the background while the new
target image is in use. There is currently a requirement to temporarily stop
using the source image before preparing a migration when not using the
import-only mode of operation. This helps to ensure that the client using the
image is updated to point to the new target image.

.. note::
   Image live-migration requires the Ceph Nautilus release or later. Support for
   external data sources requires the Ceph Pacific release of later. The
   ``krbd`` kernel module does not support live-migration at this time.


.. ditaa::

           +-------------+               +-------------+
           | {s} c999    |               | {s}         |
           |  Live       | Target refers |  Live       |
           |  migration  |<-------------*|  migration  |
           |  source     |  to Source    |  target     |
           |             |               |             |
           | (read only) |               | (writable)  |
           +-------------+               +-------------+

               Source                        Target

The live-migration process is comprised of three steps:

#. **Prepare Migration:** The initial step creates the new target image and
   links the target image to the source. When not configured in the import-only
   mode, the source image will also be linked to the target image and marked
   read-only.

   Similar to `layered images`_, attempts to read uninitialized data extents
   within the target image will internally redirect the read to the source
   image, and writes to uninitialized extents within the target will internally
   deep-copy the overlapping source image block to the target image.


#. **Execute Migration:** This is a background operation that deep-copies all
   initialized blocks from the source image to the target. This step can be
   run while clients are actively using the new target image.


#. **Finish Migration:** Once the background migration process has completed,
   the migration can be committed or aborted. Committing the migration will
   remove the cross-links between the source and target images, and will
   remove the source image if not configured in the import-only mode. Aborting
   the migration will remove the cross-links, and will remove the target image.

Prepare Migration
=================

The default live-migration process for images within the same Ceph cluster is
initiated by running the `rbd migration prepare` command, providing the source
and target images::

    $ rbd migration prepare migration_source [migration_target]

The `rbd migration prepare` command accepts all the same layout optionals as the
`rbd create` command, which allows changes to the immutable image on-disk
layout. The `migration_target` can be skipped if the goal is only to change the
on-disk layout, keeping the original image name.

All clients using the source image must be stopped prior to preparing a
live-migration. The prepare step will fail if it finds any running clients with
the image open in read/write mode. Once the prepare step is complete, the
clients can be restarted using the new target image name. Attempting to restart
the clients using the source image name will result in failure.

The `rbd status` command will show the current state of the live-migration::

    $ rbd status migration_target
    Watchers: none
    Migration:
        	source: rbd/migration_source (5e2cba2f62e)
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (5e2ed95ed806)
        	state: prepared

Note that the source image will be moved to the RBD trash to avoid mistaken
usage during the migration process::

    $ rbd info migration_source
    rbd: error opening image migration_source: (2) No such file or directory
    $ rbd trash ls --all
    5e2cba2f62e migration_source


Prepare Import-Only Migration
=============================

The import-only live-migration process is initiated by running the same
`rbd migration prepare` command, but adding the `--import-only` optional
and providing a JSON-encoded ``source-spec`` to describe how to access
the source image data. This ``source-spec`` can either be passed
directly via the `--source-spec` optional, or via a file or STDIN via the
`--source-spec-path` optional::

        $ rbd migration prepare --import-only --source-spec "<JSON>" migration_target

The `rbd migration prepare` command accepts all the same layout optionals as the
`rbd create` command.

The `rbd status` command will show the current state of the live-migration::

        $ rbd status migration_target
        Watchers: none
        Migration:
	        source: {"stream":{"file_path":"/mnt/image.raw","type":"file"},"type":"raw"}
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (ac69113dc1d7)
	        state: prepared

The general format for the ``source-spec`` JSON is as follows::

        {
            "type": "<format-type>",
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "<stream-type>",
                <stream unique parameters>
            }
        }

The following formats are currently supported: ``native``, ``qcow``, and
``raw``. The following streams are currently supported: ``file``, ``http``, and
``s3``.

Formats
~~~~~~~

The ``native`` format can be used to describe a native RBD image within a
Ceph cluster as the source image. Its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded
as follows::

        {
            "type": "native",
            ["cluster_name": "<cluster-name>",] (specify if image in another cluster,
                                                 requires ``<cluster-name>.conf`` file)
            ["client_name": "<client-name>",] (for connecting to another cluster,
                                               default is ``client.admin``)
            "pool_name": "<pool-name>",
            ["pool_id": <pool-id>,] (optional alternative to "pool_name")
            ["pool_namespace": "<pool-namespace",] (optional)
            "image_name": "<image-name>",
            ["image_id": "<image-id>",] (optional if image in trash)
            "snap_name": "<snap-name>",
            ["snap_id": "<snap-id>",] (optional alternative to "snap_name")
        }

Note that the ``native`` format does not include the ``stream`` object since
it utilizes native Ceph operations. For example, to import from the image
``rbd/ns1/image1@snap1``, the ``source-spec`` could be encoded as::

        {
            "type": "native",
            "pool_name": "rbd",
            "pool_namespace": "ns1",
            "image_name": "image1",
            "snap_name": "snap1"
        }

The ``qcow`` format can be used to describe a QCOW (QEMU copy-on-write) block
device. Both the QCOW (v1) and QCOW2 formats are currently supported with the
exception of advanced features such as compression, encryption, backing
files, and external data files. Support for these missing features may be added
in a future release. The ``qcow`` format data can be linked to any supported
stream source described below. For example, its base ``source-spec`` JSON is
encoded as follows::

        {
            "type": "qcow",
            "stream": {
                <stream unique parameters>
            }
        }

The ``raw`` format can be used to describe a thick-provisioned, raw block device
export (i.e. `rbd export --export-format 1 <snap-spec>`). The ``raw`` format
data can be linked to any supported stream source described below. For example,
its base ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                <stream unique parameters for HEAD, non-snapshot revision>
            },
            "snapshots": [
                {
                    "type": "raw",
                    "name": "<snapshot-name>",
                    "stream": {
                        <stream unique parameters for snapshot>
                    }
                },
            ] (optional oldest to newest ordering of snapshots)
        }

The inclusion of the ``snapshots`` array is optional and currently only supports
thick-provisioned ``raw`` snapshot exports.

Additional formats such as RBD export-format v2 and RBD export-diff
snapshots will be added in a future release.

Streams
~~~~~~~

The ``file`` stream can be used to import from a locally accessible POSIX file
source. Its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "file",
                "file_path": "<file-path>"
            }
        }

For example, to import a raw-format image from a file located at
"/mnt/image.raw", its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                "type": "file",
                "file_path": "/mnt/image.raw"
            }
        }

The ``http`` stream can be used to import from a remote HTTP or HTTPS web
server. Its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "http",
                "url": "<url-path>"
            }
        }

For example, to import a raw-format image from a file located at
``http://download.ceph.com/image.raw``, its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded
as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                "type": "http",
                "url": "http://download.ceph.com/image.raw"
            }
        }

The ``s3`` stream can be used to import from a remote S3 bucket. Its
``source-spec`` JSON is encoded as follows::

        {
            <format unique parameters>
            "stream": {
                "type": "s3",
                "url": "<url-path>",
                "access_key": "<access-key>",
                "secret_key": "<secret-key>"
            }
        }

For example, to import a raw-format image from a file located at
`http://s3.ceph.com/bucket/image.raw`, its ``source-spec`` JSON is encoded
as follows::

        {
            "type": "raw",
            "stream": {
                "type": "s3",
                "url": "http://s3.ceph.com/bucket/image.raw",
                "access_key": "NX5QOQKC6BH2IDN8HC7A",
                "secret_key": "LnEsqNNqZIpkzauboDcLXLcYaWwLQ3Kop0zAnKIn"
            }
        }

.. note::
  The ``access_key`` and ``secret_key`` parameters support storing the keys in
  the MON config-key store by prefixing the key values with ``config://``
  followed by the path in the MON config-key store to the value. Values can be
  stored in the config-key store via ``ceph config-key set <key-path> <value>``
  (e.g. ``ceph config-key set rbd/s3/access_key NX5QOQKC6BH2IDN8HC7A``).

Execute Migration
=================

After preparing the live-migration, the image blocks from the source image
must be copied to the target image. This is accomplished by running the
`rbd migration execute` command::

    $ rbd migration execute migration_target
    Image migration: 100% complete...done.

The `rbd status` command will also provide feedback on the progress of the
migration block deep-copy process::

    $ rbd status migration_target
    Watchers:
    	watcher=1.2.3.4:0/3695551461 client.123 cookie=123
    Migration:
        	source: rbd/migration_source (5e2cba2f62e)
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (5e2ed95ed806)
        	state: executing (32% complete)


Commit Migration
================

Once the live-migration has completed deep-copying all data blocks from the
source image to the target, the migration can be committed::

    $ rbd status migration_target
    Watchers: none
    Migration:
        	source: rbd/migration_source (5e2cba2f62e)
        	destination: rbd/migration_target (5e2ed95ed806)
        	state: executed
    $ rbd migration commit migration_target
    Commit image migration: 100% complete...done.

If the `migration_source` image is a parent of one or more clones, the `--force`
option will need to be specified after ensuring all descendent clone images are
not in use.

Committing the live-migration will remove the cross-links between the source
and target images, and will remove the source image::

    $ rbd trash list --all


Abort Migration
===============

If you wish to revert the prepare or execute step, run the `rbd migration abort`
command to revert the migration process::

        $ rbd migration abort migration_target
        Abort image migration: 100% complete...done.

Aborting the migration will result in the target image being deleted and access
to the original source image being restored::

        $ rbd ls
        migration_source


.. _layered images: ../rbd-snapshot/#layering
